more than two dozen Palestinian
journalists have called for fellow
journalists to boycott the White House
correspondence association dinner they
say the Biden Administration is
complicit in Israel's systematic killing
of Palestinian journalists since
Israel's war on Gaza began last October
the Israeli military has killed 142
media workers and journalists 40
Palestinian journalists have been
arrested by the Israeli military and the
committee to protect journalists says
that 2023 was the deadliest year for
journalists in a decade 34 of the
journalists killed worldwide were
Palestinians reporting on the war in
Gaza now to Al jazer is hinari hin
you're joining us over the phone from
Daryl Bala in central Gaza you're one of
the signatories of the letter that has
called on the white house uh the US
White House correspondence to boycott
tonight's dinner I don't know whether
you were able to hear that interview
with shihab I'm going to keep it simple
you have um been through something that
in covering this war since day one that
very few journalists on earth have ever
experienced and that includes War
correspondence why don't you tell us
what it's been like for you to cover
this
war well I don't know if I have the
words to
describe what I have been going through
since October 7 this is not something
that has been ending it have been
continuous every single day for more
than days we have been killed displaced
homeless and we're not only reporting on
this but we're also living it with every
single detail we're living this war in
all aspects of life we have not been
seen our families as journalists we have
not been able to eat well we have been
dehydrated um we have been not having
offices we have been reporting in one of
the most harsh conditions like any
repure could go through and we still
reporting despite losing a lot of
colleagues and it hurts our our souls
and our hearts every single day um we
have been a Target we have been
constantly targeted by the Israeli air
strikes and Israeli shelling um a week
ago Sami shata our colleague was um
targeted with an artillery shelling he
got uh his leg amputated in the same
exact moment the the tanks fired at him
he lost his leg he has been calling um
to leave the goel STP but there has been
no response because he needs medical
treatment all of these daily things we
have been living in as journalists are
are overwhelming are exhausting us but
we still continue because there has been
at least 100 Palestinian journalists who
I personally know that have been killed
killed since October 7 and if they were
here today with us they would be
reporting and they would be um raising
the voice of the voiceless
Palestinians living under genocide for
more than 200 days if you count
journalists and media workers the number
is 142 killed since the beginning of the
war hind is there any way whether it's
for you or any other journalist in Gaza
at the moment to do your
job without taking
an extraordinary risk is there any way
to do this in a way that is safe where
you don't think in the morning I don't
know if I'm coming back home
tonight I don't know if I can I can I
will continue this call with you it's
the to this extent I don't know if I I'm
going to hang up this call and go and
sleep and wake up in the morning there's
no guarantee that a Palestinian
journalist a Palestinian media worker or
any other Palestinian currently living
in the Gaza Strip won't be targeted we
have been constantly being targeted we
are risking Our Lives we're risking Our
Lives to report the world what's
currently happening everyone has been
relying on pal on Palestinian
journalists for videos for photos uh
where we've been also being killed and
like everyone is neglecting the fact
that Palestinian reporting on the ground
are are are are are humans like
literally neglecting the fact that we
are humans we have stories to tell we
have personal lives we have families um
byting the White House Correspondence
Dinner is a no-brainer I can't believe
like after seven months of this genocide
we are still convincing people that they
should boycott this um dinner like uh
the root of all of this has been like a
press instit tions that need to contend
the fact that they are making money from
reporting on the death of Palestinians
and they refuse the name like they they
literally are refusing uh to name like
the killers and and like and and like
they're currently dehumanizing
Palestinians and dehumanizing
Palestinian stories every single day
okay and and this is like really hurting
Palestinians and also Palestinian media
workers and hin just so you know um as
you say this and as we listen to your
words we're also seeing the pictures the
live shot right now of this protest
outside the the Hilton Hotel in
Washington where Biden is set to address
journalists at this dinner uh a few
hours from now and now I believe um so
that so that that it's interesting your
words are interesting and they're
playing out over these pictures of
protesters who basically agree with your
point hin thank you so much for uh
staying up for us I know it's very late
where you are almost 1:30 a.m. and
thanks for your work since the beginning
of this war Ahmed shihab Elin is a
journalist also a signatur of the open
letter calling on colleagues to boycott
the White House correspondence
association dinner you're joining us
live uh from vien the letter
says Ahmed that for journalists to rub
shoulders with the president is
whitewashing the administra
administration's role in genocide talk
to us about that
well serel it's been 6 months of mass
murder every day it's really at this
point in my mind unacceptable to stay
silent out of fear or you know
professional concern while we're seeing
journalists in Gaza continue to be not
just killed but detained tortured and
even their families killed uh we know
President Biden will be speaking at the
White House correspondent dinner tonight
we know he'll likely mention threats to
journalists around the world I do wonder
and I wonder if our colleagues at you
know my former colleagues at Al jazer
yourself included will he mentioned
Israel's murder of Shireen abak and the
more than 142 as you mentioned
Palestinian journalists and media
workers who've been killed uh so you
know for me the White House
correspondence dinner maybe some of your
viewers might not know it's really an
embodiment of a big problem with us
media the trading of journalistic ethics
for access and to attend in my mind is
to normalize as you said to sanitize
quoting the the letter and to whitewash
the administration's role I mean
principal journalists should boycott the
White House correspondent's annual
dinner in solidarity uh you know
journalism is at its core its most
powerful purpose is to hold the powerful
to account it's about afflicting the
comfortable and com comforting The
Afflicted
Ahmed just a word since you mentioned
Shireen something I should say in the
interest of full disclosure um we're at
aljazera directly impacted of course by
this story Shireen abakay was one of our
veteran reporters she was killed in the
occupied West Bank it was well before
this war at the time Israel had said it
wasn't them the investigation ended up
showing as we've said from the beginning
that it was indeed an Israeli sniper uh
bullet that killed her and there have
been multiple Alero journalists who have
been either killed or wounded in Gaza
since the beginning of this war um so we
are directly impacted by this story
going back to you now the letter says
Western media has played an integral
role in manufacturing consent for Israel
explain
that I mean just to provide context to
that truth if you drose the Western
media's belligerently biased in my
opinion coverage of Gaza I mean it's not
been discret it's been deliberate and
disgraceful especially the regurgitating
of talking points uh you know the
framing the lack of context the passive
voice as we've heard from some of your
other guests tonight uh but to explain
it more simply I mean how can I put it
um uh more children Sur Real as you know
were killed by Israel and Gaza in just
165 days then were killed in all other
Global conflicts over the past four
years most of those conflicts where
journalists were allowed you know
International journalists I should say
were allowed to cover it I mean the
Western media
has explicitly and repeatedly framed
October 7th as a terrorist attack yet
they've portrayed the dozens and dozens
of October 7th that Israel has been
unleashing on Gaza for more than 6
months now killing tens of thousands of
of civilians I mean the overwhelming
majority we know of those killed by
Israel are children and women so you
know when I appear in interviews like
this in the west maybe this can also
provide some explanation I mean I'm
always expected to condemn the killing
of Israelis October 7th but western or
Israeli guests are rarely if ever asked
on those same broadcast Outlets to
condemn Israel's killing of innocent
civilians in Gaza so I think that tells
you all you need to know so so in light
of that just before I let you go Ahmed
real quick since you would like to see
the White House Correspondents boycott
this dinner and there's no indication
that they were boycotting in fact we're
seeing them enter the room we're seeing
the live footage now if you were a White
House correspondent imagine you had
access to the US president you were
interviewing him what would you ask Joe
Biden I don't know if he'd be able to
handle a simple question but why don't
Palestinians deserve the same rights as
any other human being including
Israelis all right okay Ahmed shihab
Palestinian America journalist and
filmmaker signatur of the letter that
we've been talking about thank you very
much for your time
today make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer